= Meaningful Reporting =

Measuring performance is useless unless you have a way to monitor the data. Reporting on the data should meet three primary requirements:

  # Timely - The data should be available as quick as possible. If it takes to long to see what's going on, you will not be able to act responsibly.
  # Multi-format - A report available from only one place cannot reach all those who need to know the data. The data needs to be available in multiple formats through multiple communication processes.
  # Plentiful - there should be enough data to draw conclusions and make plans accordingly  

= Completed = 

The first stage, a single dynamic report with a chart. The report allows multiple dates to be requested and also allows the user to select one or multiple line graphs. A configuration file uses presets to define the events that are going to be shown on the graph.

= To Be Done =

  # Porting reporting to different databases, right now it only works against the Oracle database instance.
  # Enable interval reporting with database rollups. Currently only a 1 hour interval is available. The plan is to support intervals varying from minutes to days and years.
  # Support non-contiguous time selections spanning days (eg: peak hours, weekdays, etc.)
  # Additional server-side components.

= Current Files = 

The current files in the reporting samples are:

  # dbconn.inc.php - this file holds the settings used to connect to the database.
  # report.php - server-side php script to pull data from the database.
  # report.html - the web page.
  # report.js - the javascript file used to pull data from the php scripts into the chart .
  # [ReportEventsConfig config.js] - file to configure events 